In this video you'll install and activate the newcomers plug in as well as import a sample set of products
and check out the settings.
We'll be preparing a storefront website to display products and provide a shopping cart and check out
And there are plans to eventually incorporate it into the core files instead of being a separate plugin.
By learning to work with wordpress e-commerce functionality through the WU comer's plug in you'll be
Let's start by just checking out the newcomers Web site and finding out where the support documents
Have to look something up.
So if you navigate to new comers dotcom you'll see their Web site right here and you can get some good
Newcomer's powers over 30 percent of all online stores.
and they do have commercial plug ins that are add ons for certain functionality for wude comer's that's
over with commerce up in the menu here.
You can see that this is where the documentation is.
Now I went and searched the documentation for how to import some sample data so that we have something
It says that it's located inside of the newcomers zip file but if you've already installed the plug
File Manager to go and find that ex-MIL file just in the same way that we did in a previous part of
SML file using the Wordpress importer will want to work with one of our live Web sites for this one
and so I'm going to use my MailChimp test site and just repurpose it for the WU commerce plugin and
set up that we're going to be making.
I can just remove these sidebar widgets will be using a different theme provided by newcomers and I
those two MailChimp widgets for now and just drag them over this way.
That way I'm getting rid of those two MailChimp widgets and I can just leave MailChimp for W.P. activated
as it has a new commerce extension which is an integration that they provide.
Here are the newcomers check out integration is available.
Once you get the new comers plug in.
hosting.
Or go ahead and log in to the MailChimp WordPress dashboard that we were using in the last chapter.
Then you can just do what I've done and reverse a couple of our changes that we made including going
And go ahead and save your changes.
Now that that's done.
Follow along with me as we go to the plug ins add new page and will search and install and activate
Just do a search for commerce.
There it is.
Now I already have it installed and so if you don't click install but I am going to go over to my install
plugins page and activate it
here.
Just activate
great now.
One thing that newcomer's does that makes it really easy to get started is that they have a set up wizard.
Now you can skip the setup and look at all the settings manually.
But let's go ahead and run the setup wizard and we'll get started that way.
So follow along on your own website and let's see what the set up wizard does for us to get us started
with newcomers.
All right.
So it's going to give us a little welcome message and you can click Let's go.
And then the pages your store needs a few essential pages so these pages the store will use and they're
And if they're not already created then the plugin will be creating these automatically.
It's a good convenience.
Great so we can set up a few questions and you can fill out your answers for yourself here.
My location is Colorado and I use the U.S. dollar and I'll use pounds and I'll use inches shipping and
No I'm going to be setting up a digital downloads product instead of a physical goods product.
going to be charging sales tax just to make it easy and convenient.
Now I do use Paypal already but Strype is another very good payment processor and so I'll be choosing
whichever one is convenient for me.
You know Pay-Pal standard check payments are available.
Bank Transfer etc..
And let's allow check payments as well.
And I'll just hit continue great the store is ready already.
That's OK for me to give it some diagnostic data or you can hit.
No thanks.
And then the next steps would be to create your first product.
data that newcomer's will provide for us.
So from here we can just click return to the Wordpress dashboard and the wizard has made some essential
Let's open the pages and you can see that we've got four extra pages here cart and a checkout page and
Sounds good.
Now as I mentioned there's two ways to get the ex-MIL file that we're going to be using to import the
First of all just on the home page of newcomer's dot com you could see there's a free download button.
This is probably the easier of the two ways if you just download the zip file and then uncompress or
unzip it onto your computer.
You can then go into the location they recommended and find that SML final file.
So it's under plug ins.
Woo commerce.
And then there's a dummy data folder and there's a dummy dash data dot ex-MIL file that we're looking
If you'd rather you can use FCP or a file manager within your C panel and find the file yourself.
Go ahead and do that and then come back and we'll import that file.
Now in my C panel for Greg Davis dot com inside ground I go down to the file manager and it opens this
It's very convenient.
And now you can recognize and I'm sure you're familiar with these different word press corps files and
So NWP dash content.
Here's the dummy data folder.
And now I've got the dummy data dot ex-MIL file.
So if I just double click that file it'll download it I click click save file and now I've got that
file right there in my downloads folder.
I can get to it through going to Windows Explorer or if you're on a Mac you can find it using the Finder.
What about themes for this chapter.
We're going to be working with newcomers and one of the newcomers themes that has a deep integration
It's designed to work with any theme but there are some theme features in the theme we're going to be
So if you roll over themes that newcomers dot com go down to e-commerce themes.
The first one there is called storefront.
Now storefront is a theme that like I said is integrated deeply with the newcomers plug in.
It's made by wew themes and the newcomers company but they also sell child themes for the new comers
storefront theme.
But we're going to just customize and work with the storefront theme itself.
And of course you can make your own child theme of storefront and do customisations within that child
But we know that it's called storefront.
So if we go back into our WordPress dashboard and then roll over appearance and click themes we'll be
and activating it.
So I just click Add new and when it comes up with my list of themes I can go to the right hand side
and I'm just going to do a search for e-commerce storefronts for that search term.
It pops up at the top left and then I can just click the install button.
Great.
Now that that theme is activated you can check it out by looking at this.
It needs Wu commers to be activated and there's a little bit of news and different things that you can
You can see that they advertise their child themes that they sell here if you're looking for something
But for this chapter we're just going to be using the straight storefront theme all by itself.
So a small challenge for this video.
Go ahead and get the WU commerce dummy data SML file.
Pozza video now and then I'll show you how to do it.
That was probably pretty easy for you if you recall.
You need to go under Tools and click the import button and if you haven't already you need to install
If I just click the browse button and go to my downloads I can see that I have that dummy data SML file
file and import great.
Sure.
And then I'm going to click download an import file attachments and click submit lets go under products
and click products and just take a look and see if we have any products.
Nice.
I have 23 items.
And in fact I want to see them all on the same page so I'm just going to go up and use my screen options
I've got they've got images on them.
Now it looks just like a posts or a Pages editing screen.
It's got a description something right here.
It has a permalink and you can see that it uses a u r l with the word product and then the name which
We've got a few more options down here it looks like there's product categories that you can use and
This is a new custom post type called a product.
And so it's got category's tags.
And it's also got something called attributes.
And so as we scroll down we can see that it's got a product image which is like a featured image.
And then there's some product data down here at the bottom that the plug in gives us inside of this
custom post-time.
It's got a short description and it's got a lot of stuff that we'll explore in later videos in this
The last thing under the name of your site.
Mine is called MailChimp test site still you can see that you have a visit site button which is the
But you also have a visit store button and so it's the r l of your site right here.
Slash shop.
So it's just right click and open that link in a new tab and see what our shop looks like for now.
This looks excellent.
The my account and the shop button and you can see I've got a grid lay out with buttons prices ratings
and images for each of the products inside of the store.
Awesome in this lesson.
You set up a live site with the newcomers plug in as well as an e-commerce theme made for Commerce called
storefront.
You also imported a file from commerce that loaded your site up with products and product attributes
so that you can work on setting up and customizing your web store in the next video.
We'll explore the custom post types that the new comers plug in provides as well as the taxonomies and